[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
There is a topic that
I just immerse myself
in whenever it comes up.
And it's called remote viewing.
And we have a
special guest for you
today on "Beyond
Belief," Lyn Buchanan.
Lyn was what we would
call a psychic spy.
He spent 8 and 1/2 years
with the military's unit
investigating the phenomena
and using remote viewing
in his everyday military career.
Lyn, welcome to the program.
>>LYN BUCHANAN: Well,
thank you for inviting me.
>>NOORY: This is an amazing
subject, remote viewing.
>>BUCHANAN: You know, I
am not surprised by much
that I see in remote
viewing anymore.
But I will never
quit being amazed.
When they read me
on in the unit,
I thought I'm on
"Candid Camera."
The military doesn't do this.
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>BUCHANAN: And I was
amazed that they did.
And I'm still amazed
by the whole thing.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
What branch of
service were you in?
>>BUCHANAN: Army.
>>NOORY: OK.
So you're in the Army?
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You're not a
remote viewer at the time?
>>BUCHANAN: No, uh-uh.
>>NOORY: How did they find you?
>>BUCHANAN: There was an
incident that is still
classified that
happened over in--
>>NOORY: Oh, tell us.
>>BUCHANAN: Well, it's sort
of pictured in "The Men Who
Stare at Goats," that movie.
But I have always had a sort of
a PK ability when I get angry.
I was one of those
poltergeist kids, you know?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Wishing people
into the cornfield?
>>BUCHANAN: Sort of, yeah.
[LAUGHTER]
And I got phenomenally
angry one day.
And about $50 million worth
of computers burned out.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>BUCHANAN: The field
station went down
for a still classified
amount of time.
And General Stubblebine, head
of the Army Security Command,
got wind of it and came.
And he wanted me to
be a part of a unit
that he wanted to start, where
we would kill enemy computers,
with the end goal of
learning how to control
the computers instead
of killing them,
so that we could make their
missiles drop into the sea
or turn around and go
back at him or whatever.
And Congress said, no, that
smites of mind control.
And we've been caught
doing that before.
And they wouldn't fund it.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>BUCHANAN: So he took me
out to this little unit
out at Fort Meade, Maryland that
was doing the remote viewing.
They read me on, which
is where they tell you
what they actually do rather
than what they tell the public.
And I didn't believe it.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: You didn't even
know what remote viewing was
at the time, did you?
>>BUCHANAN: I had no idea.
No.
He just plopped me into
the unit and said here,
he's your problem now.
>>NOORY: Here you go.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
I wound up being the trainer
of the unit, in fact.
>>NOORY: And the
people in that unit
are people that we all know.
They've been on the
"Coast to Coast."
The Ed Dames, the David
Moreheads, Ingo Swann,
and those people like that.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Yeah, David Morehouse.
>>NOORY: Wonderful people
who were into this way
before you were.
But you picked it
up pretty fast.
>>BUCHANAN: It was
like duck to water.
I have never seen anything so
amazing and so just engrossing
in my life.
It struck me as phenomenal.
What really struck
me as phenomenal
was that, first of all,
they didn't want psychics.
They wanted people who
were database-oriented so
that from day one,
they could say,
you know, we gave you a target.
You described the colors
with 50% accuracy.
You described the shape
with 43% accuracy and so on.
So here's your weaknesses.
We're going to
train you in these.
Here's your strengths,
where you got 80% accuracy,
we're going to depend on you.
>>NOORY: Which is uncanny.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
And the database, I
mean, it was facts.
You prove yourself or
you're out, you know.
>>NOORY: Did they kick
some people out, Lyn.
>>BUCHANAN: There were
people who left, yeah.
But we still do that.
You know, now that we're
in the civilian arena,
we keep track of your
strengths and weaknesses.
And like if you're
good at colors,
and you're terrible at shapes,
then anytime we need a color,
we'll come to you.
If we need shapes--
>>NOORY: OK, you
worked as a team.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
We work as a team.
And that way, we can get your
90% correctness of colors,
my 90% correctness of shapes,
and somebody else's, you know,
and so on.
>>NOORY: Location maybe
or something like that.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
And it also helps because
we know your weaknesses,
we know how to
customize your training
so that we can build your
weaknesses into new strengths.
And yeah, it's one
of those things
where there's no woo-woo to it.
You do your work.
You prove yourself.
And if you can't do the
work, we'll train you.
Or we'll get your job
at Walmart or something.
>>NOORY: Was it a classified
program at the time?
>>BUCHANAN: Yes, it was.
>>NOORY: So you
couldn't talk about it
to your friends or anybody?
>>BUCHANAN: Not even
my wife, no, uh-uh.
>>NOORY: Did she know that
you had these abilities.
>>BUCHANAN: Actually,
she did, because when
General Stubblebine sent a team
out to Germany where I was,
they took my wife
and me out to dinner.
He said, we can't tell you
what we're recruiting you for.
And so your wife
can't hear this.
And she was sitting on the
wall side of the table.
And she said, OK, I
won't pay attention.
And so he told it.
And he turned to me,
and he said, do you
think your wife would
be OK with this.
And I said, I think she might.
She said, yeah, I'd
be fine with it.
And so she actually
knew what it was about.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BUCHANAN: She didn't get any
training or anything like that.
>>NOORY: She didn't
know the depth of it.
>>BUCHANAN: No.
No.
>>NOORY: One of our friends who
was in that unit, Dr. Doom, Ed
Ames.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>ED AMES: At the time of
the unit's formative days,
I was at very high levels
of US Intel, office
of Secretary of Defense.
So my job as a targeting
officer, a science
and technology
targeting officer,
was to choose our
targets, particularly
biological warfare--
very classified top secret
Russian and Chinese targets.
Well, we couldn't
penetrate them.
I had all these tools
at my disposal, agents
on the ground, very
exotic technologies.
We couldn't get
into these programs.
So I was read on, briefed,
about the existence
of this experimental unit,
a remote viewing unit.
And I started to use
their information
to cross cue my other
systems to tip off satellites
and other agents to
look in certain places.
And we were able to finally
gain a foothold into these very,
very secret Soviet programs--
nuclear weapons programs,
biological warfare programs,
those kinds of things.
And I became so
enthralled with this unit,
I stepped down from these
celestial levels of Intel
to take over as operations
and training officer.
And that was 33 or so years ago.
And I'm still doing it.
>>NOORY: Ed Ames, of course,
was appearing on our Gaia show,
"Buzzsaw" with Sean Stone.
And he was an influential part
of all of this, wasn't he?
>>BUCHANAN: Well, actually,
he was not a viewer.
But he was the training officer,
which meant that he was, again,
the targeting officer.
So he would plan the sessions,
who would pick the viewers,
and would take the targets that
were coming in from customers
and decide who should
view and all that.
I was the trainer.
He was the training officer.
So he guided the training.
I did the training.
>>NOORY: What are
some of the projects,
Lyn, that they
had you undertake?
>>BUCHANAN: The ones that
have been declassified,
we did things for the Cold War.
We did things for Kuwait,
Afghanistan, Granada--
you know, the
invasion of Granada.
>>NOORY: Yeah, right.
>>BUCHANAN: We also did a
lot of basically intelligence
gathering on the developments--
the scientific and political
developments of
foreign countries,
the plans and intentions
of foreign leaders
and military leaders
and things like that.
>>NOORY: Would they
want you to investigate
the physical aspects
of what was going on?
>>BUCHANAN: Oh yeah.
In fact, one of the strengths
that we wound up gathering,
you could give us an
encrypted coordinate--
this is project 97-0404
and describe it.
That was it.
And by the end of
the session, we
would have laid out the
floor plan of the building
where a hostage was being held.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>BUCHANAN: And with really
great accuracy, in fact.
In fact, the average accuracy--
we did a two-month long study
on this with
feedbackable targets--
the average accuracy was 82.7%.
>>NOORY: That's huge, huge.
>>BUCHANAN: It is actually.
The police say if you can cut
down their search area by 10%,
they're happy.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BUCHANAN: We had around
82.7% accuracy overall,
which meant 60% in some
things, like shapes
or, 90% in other things.
>>NOORY: What exactly
is remote viewing, Lyn?
>>BUCHANAN: OK.
Remote viewing,
everybody has some theory
about where you get the
information and all that.
Nobody has any proof.
So we really don't know.
But we do know that you
have your conscious mind
and the subconscious mind.
We say subconscious, you
know, instead of unconscious,
because the subconscious
is not unconscious at all.
>>NOORY: It's quite functional.
>>BUCHANAN: It's
very functional.
And somehow, it has a connection
to a collective consciousness--
not collective
unconscious-- the collective
is very conscious too.
And somehow, that seems
to also have a connection
to a universal
consciousness of some kind.
We have no understanding
of what it is.
But just like the ancients
used to use batteries
to electroplate things.
>>NOORY: The Iraqi battery.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
They had no idea
what electricity was.
But they knew how to use it.
And we have learned
how to use that.
The trick is that your
conscious and subconscious mind
don't talk to each other.
A man named Ingo
Swann developed it.
>>NOORY: God rest his soul.
>>BUCHANAN: Oh
yeah, fantastic man.
He developed a way
where you can actually
use your body as
a martial art that
will let your subconscious,
which can control your body,
talk to your conscious mind,
and it's a complex method
for doing that.
And once you get your conscious
and subconscious talking
to each other, all of a
sudden, it opens the door.
>>NOORY: Very powerful.
>>BUCHANAN: Oh,
man, it's amazing.
It really is.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: When I first heard
of remote viewing years ago--
years ago, Lyn--
it boggled my mind.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's almost as
if you send your eyes out
into wherever and it
physically sees things.
how does that work?
How can you see without looking?
>>BUCHANAN: The only
real honest answer
for that is it
works pretty well.
>>NOORY: It does.
How and why we don't know.
>>BUCHANAN: How and why--
like I say, everybody
has a theory,
and they hang on to that
theory like they're lost at sea
and it's the only
thing that floats.
>>NOORY: How do you know
that you were accurate?
How did they test that?
>>BUCHANAN: One of
the reasons they
didn't want psychics is
because psychics tend
to believe everything they get.
>>NOORY: Right or wrong.
>>BUCHANAN: Right or wrong.
>>BUCHANAN: And from
day one, we databased
everything we found out.
And from day one, you had to
accept, oh, 15% of the time,
I get the color wrong.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>BUCHANAN: And so on.
And you know, with the military,
it was do the job, or--
>>NOORY: Out you go.
>>BUCHANAN: --out you go.
And you have to prove yourself.
We still do that when we use
the controlled remote viewing
in the civilian arena.
>>NOORY: Why would
inaccuracies pop up?
Missing something, for
example, why would that happen?
>>BUCHANAN: 'Cause you're
one of those stupid humans.
[LAUGHS] I guess
that's the reason.
It's just human failure.
>>NOORY: Am I correct, Lyn,
that with remote viewing,
the more you think
about something,
the least you'll be able to do?
>>BUCHANAN: The more you try
to interpret what you get.
We tell everybody, whatever
comes through, you know--
>>NOORY: Just let it come in.
>>BUCHANAN: Let it come in.
If it says red, don't
tell me it's an apple.
Tell me it's red.
And don't try to
interpret anything.
Let your subconscious
mind be your eyes.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BUCHANAN: In fact, in the
training that I'm doing now
on the internet, we start out
by having you look at a target.
>>NOORY: Look at the target.
>>BUCHANAN: Look at the target
picture and describe it.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>BUCHANAN: And
then, we teach you--
>>NOORY: By physically
looking at it.
>>BUCHANAN: By
physically looking at it.
Most people don't know
how to describe things.
>>NOORY: No, that's true.
>>BUCHANAN: And we teach
you how to describe things.
And then we say, OK, now we're
going to let your subconscious
mind be your eyes for you.
We hide the target,
let you do the session,
and then immediately give you
the feedback and say, OK, what
you right about?
What were you wrong about?
And so on.
Score this, accept your
accuracy, accept your failures,
accept your successes.
>>NOORY: Is remote
viewing a hunch?
Or is it that visualization
in your brain?
>>BUCHANAN: In the beginning,
when you're first learning,
you're going by
hunches, and you know,
you get some kind of an idea.
And you tend to think, oh,
that can't be right, you know.
And you just learn through
practice, practice, practice
to accept things.
Now, the controlled remote
viewing methodology,
you go ahead and write
everything that comes out.
By the end of your
session, you've
gotten some really good
mental contact with the site.
And you can go
through your session.
And you can say, oh, that's
garbage, that's garbage.
Oh, this is good stuff.
>>NOORY: This is good.
I like that.
>>BUCHANAN: And
you filter it out.
And as a result, sort of
like using a sieve, you know,
you go through
everything you got.
You filter out the good stuff.
You throw away the garbage.
It's a part of the process.
And as a result, you
get better results.
>>NOORY: Controlled
remote viewing.
>>BUCHANAN: Controlled
>>NOORY: Let's look.
>> Generally there are four
types of remote viewing.
The first is controlled
remote viewing, or CRV.
This is the most
commonly used form
of remote viewing that was
almost exclusively used
by the US military and the CIA.
In CRV, there are
typically six stages.
First the viewer
records a gestalt.
This is something that makes
up the majority of the target.
For example, if the
target is in the desert,
the viewer may get
the impression of sand
or the color of sand.
They may get the impression
of heat or dryness.
Many remote viewers
use an ideogram,
which is nothing more than a
squiggly shape or line that
helps the viewer to stay focused
or dialed in to the target.
Next, the viewer
begins to collect
data coming in the form of
tastes, smells, textures,
colors, sounds, shapes.
And at this point, the data
could still mean anything.
However, the more the
viewer works on the target,
the more information
comes in about the target.
The viewer then records any
dimensional characteristics
about the target--
the height, the
length, the weight,
whether it is large or small.
Keep in mind that
the viewer never
tried to identify anything
within their view.
The viewer then records
the qualitative data,
describing something to be
soft or hard, strong or weak,
good or bad, bright or dark.
Now, as the viewer
collects more data,
he or she must question
their precepts.
Or in other words,
they must make sure
that they stick to the
set rules of the session.
They must make sure
that the data is not
contaminated with
bits and pieces
of their own imagination.
The viewer then tries to figure
out why certain pieces of data
was recorded, the meaning
of a word or number that
was written.
In the final stage of this
type of remote viewing,
the viewer can now begin to
put together the details--
an assessment, where they
can draw out floor plans
or create 3D models using
clay or some other medium.
This is where the viewer is
giving great specific details
of the target--
the position, the
location, the dimensions,
descriptions of any people or
animals at the target site.
And this is where the picture
really comes together.
>>NOORY: Clean
fingernails there, Lyn.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
That's a very good
descriptor, by the way,
of the controlled
remote viewing process.
The process is you first
get the overall aspects,
the gestalts of the site--
like, I have no idea
what the target is,
but I know there's some
water and some land.
And then they say, OK, don't
worry about the target.
Tell me about the water.
And you say, OK--
and here's where the
physical part comes in--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BUCHANAN: --it tastes salty.
It's cold.
It's moving up and
down and so on.
>>NOORY: It sounds like
an ocean, you know.
>>BUCHANAN: Ah.
Don't do that.
>>NOORY: Ah.
No, don't assume.
>>BUCHANAN: You
just interpreted.
>>NOORY: I did.
>>BUCHANAN: That's right.
You keep, you know, how does
it smell, how does it taste,
and so on.
And in these descriptors, you
wind up defining the target.
Once you do that, they say,
OK, tell me about the land.
And so you never have to do the
whole target, the whole site.
You go through and you find
descriptors and everything.
Once you've gone
through these and you've
paid attention, close
attention, to everything,
you really get a good
contact with the target,
a mental contact.
And like it showed there,
at the end, OK, the land.
Oh, it has something on it.
OK, describe the something.
You describe the something.
At the end, here's
a piece of clay,
build me a model
of the something.
>>NOORY: As they
were doing here.
>>BUCHANAN: As they
were doing there, yeah.
And you build a model.
And in fact, we have what's
called a sand table, which you
use in psychology for things.
And we have strips of cloth and
little blocks and everything
else.
And in the end of a session,
we can ask a viewer, OK, here's
this sand table.
Now, you know, you
said there's water.
Here's some blue cloth.
Find the water.
Put it on the sand table.
And what we wind up with
is a very accurate map
of the target site.
>>NOORY: But that's called
controlled remote viewing?
>>BUCHANAN: It's called
controlled remote viewing, not
because the remote viewer
is controlled by the method,
but because the method allows
the viewer to have control
over the process.
So it's the remote
viewing then--
>>NOORY: And that's important.
>>BUCHANAN: Oh,
that's very important.
The remote viewing is
controlled by the viewer.
>>NOORY: I was in Las Vegas
a couple months ago, Lyn,
and I like to do mental
experiments while I'm there.
And explain this for me.
I'm playing a little blackjack.
And I'm thinking,
that blackjack dealer
is going to flip a blackjack,
an ace and a face card.
I know it.
I can feel it.
And sure enough--
>>BUCHANAN: It happened.
>>NOORY: --they do that.
Now, how in the heck
is that working?
What am I doing when
I get that sense?
Am I remote viewing?
>>BUCHANAN: You just
said the answer.
When you get that sense--
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>BUCHANAN: --you get a feeling.
>>NOORY: It's an
overwhelming feeling too.
>>BUCHANAN: It's an
overwhelming feeling.
And my first book out was
called "The Seventh Sense."
>>NOORY: Good read.
>>BUCHANAN: Oh, thank you.
And it talks about the fact
that the sixth sense is actually
the ambiance, you're
feeling of the room.
Psychic is the seventh sense.
And that ambiance feel
that you suddenly get of,
oh, there's going
to be a blackjack.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
And it was really overwhelming.
>>BUCHANAN: That's right.
>>NOORY: I mean, if it
was not a blackjack,
I would have been
surprised, you know.
>>BUCHANAN: That's right.
And that's the physical feel.
The psychic sense
teaches you how
to take the psychic sense, which
doesn't have that feel, move it
over into the body and use the
body's ability to feel things
at a far distant place.
If you were here, and in Las
Vegas, he pulls a blackjack,
you wouldn't feel it here.
>>NOORY: I wouldn't feel it.
I wouldn't even know it.
>>BUCHANAN: You
wouldn't even know it.
And so the ambiance
sense is your ability
to feel what's in
the room around you.
>>NOORY: Which is critical in
some intuitive sense, isn't it?
>>BUCHANAN: Hey.
>>NOORY: A good CEO who
has that ability could
do some remarkable things.
>>BUCHANAN: That's right
and poker players get money.
>>NOORY: Same thing.
That's right.
>>BUCHANAN: They read the room.
>>NOORY: And the face.
>>BUCHANAN: And the face.
And that's your
sense of ambiance.
That's your sixth sense.
Your seventh sense
is the psychic.
And what we teach
you to do is use
that sixth ambiance sense to
feel the same ambience that
is in some other place
halfway around the world,
halfway across the universe.
>>NOORY: One of your
colleagues, Paul Smith,
appeared with me on "Beyond
Belief" to talk about--
>>BUCHANAN: Paul is a nice guy.
He really is.
>>NOORY: --remote viewing.
If you're at home watching
this program right now,
Paul, and somebody
is probably saying,
hey, so maybe I should
dabble in remote viewing.
What's the benefit to
somebody to do this?
>>PAUL SMITH: Well,
we talked about one
that it enhances intuition
in just normal everyday life.
Even if you're not
remote viewing,
your intuition has been
improved in normal cases.
It of course is a
self-validating thing which
a lot of people appreciate.
I mean, here's something
that tells me, yes, I
am more than my physical body.
I'm not just this meat machine
that science says I am.
But you can use it a
number of other ways.
Investment is probably one of
the biggest popular things now.
>>NOORY: How would that work?
>>SMITH: Well, what they
do is use a thing called
associative remote viewing.
It's a way of applying remote
viewing to actually predict
the outcome of a
future event that
has a number of different
possible outcomes.
So the prime example is
sports betting, right?
And it often is used in that.
>>NOORY: He's an amazing guy.
>>BUCHANAN: He really is, yeah.
He's good too.
We had many different types
of remote viewing in the unit.
We were testing out
everything we could.
We used the ones that worked.
We threw away the
ones that didn't.
Associative remote viewing
was one of them that did work.
Controlled remote
viewing is very
good at getting
information that's real.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BUCHANAN: Things
like numbers--
>>NOORY: Like lottery numbers.
>>BUCHANAN: Lottery
numbers, those are concepts.
We found that associative remote
viewing is really good at that.
Associative remote viewing
is good at the things
that controlled remote
viewing are not good at.
Controlled remote viewing
is good at the things
that associative remote
viewing is not good at.
And so that and basically
one other method that we had,
we use those in order
to get the information
that it was good at.
You not only use the viewers
who are good at something,
but you use the method
that's good at something.
>>NOORY: Of course.
I've dabbled a lot in
remote viewing, Lyn.
I've used techniques that
people like you and Paul Smith
have told people
about over the years.
I'm not good at numbers.
I can't pick lottery numbers.
>>BUCHANAN: Nobody is.
>>NOORY: But I can pick
these concepts and stuff.
But I have learned,
as you've been saying,
to just let it flow.
If I tried to think
it, it doesn't happen.
>>BUCHANAN: The conscious
mind sucks at being psychic.
>>NOORY: It really does.
>>BUCHANAN: It really does.
You've got to let your
subconscious do it.
And if you can't turn it over
to the subconscious mind--
we always say the viewer's
in charge of the session.
Well, the viewer is not here.
It's your subconscious
mind that is the viewer.
And you've got to let the
viewer, your subconscious,
be in charge of
the entire session.
>>NOORY: Many times I've had
a guest on "Coast to Coast,"
the radio show, and we've been
talking about remote viewing.
And I've done a little
experiment with them.
And I said let me
remote view you.
You're sitting in a couch area.
But your feet are
propped up on a table.
And you're wearing
a white T-shirt.
And 9 out of 10 times, they
say, you're absolutely right.
>>BUCHANAN: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: So I'm doing
something right.
What am I tapping into?
>>BUCHANAN: I know one of the
shows that we did one time,
you had someone
hand you an envelope
that had a word written in it.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>BUCHANAN: And you said,
OK, tell me the word.
And I said, OK, I have no
idea because I'm not psychic.
But you let me sit down and
do a remote viewing session.
And I will not only
print out the word.
I will print it out
in his handwriting.
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>BUCHANAN: And that's true.
But with the controlled
remote viewing,
you have to do the session.
But the psychic part,
some people can do that.
I can't.
I'm not a psychic.
And yet, I can give
you 90% accuracy
on what's written on a
piece of paper that's
locked in a safe
in some government
office in some foreign country.
And yet, I'm the first to
tell you, I'm not a psychic.
>>NOORY: An interesting take.
How could people
use remote viewing
in their day-to-day life, Lyn?
>>BUCHANAN: If you're in touch
with your subconscious mind,
it not only knows what's
going on around the world,
but it also knows why you do
those things you don't want
to do, but you
wind up doing them,
why you don't do the
things you want to do,
but they never get done.
It knows where
your car keys are.
>>NOORY: Somebody is
always taking our car keys.
That's a different show--
the little demons
that hide our stuff.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah, it
knows what happens
to the other sock in the dryer.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
It's in the dryer still.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
Yeah, you can use it for,
you know, personal reasons.
But to spend all of the time and
effort, practice and practice
and practice that it takes to do
the controlled remote viewing,
it may not be worth it for that.
>>NOORY: Is precognition
the same as remote viewing?
And let me give you an example.
I was approaching an
intersection one day.
And I've got the green light--
you go.
Something was telling me,
don't go through this.
>>BUCHANAN: Right.
>>NOORY: Don't go through this.
It was a very weird feeling.
Don't go through this.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: So with cars
behind me, Lyn, I stopped.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I didn't go
through the intersection.
At that very point,
where I should've
gone through my
green light, a car
goes through its
red light right.
It would have broadsided me.
God knows what would
have happened to me.
Is that precognition?
Or is that remote viewing?
Because it may be
one and the same.
>>BUCHANAN: Well it's
Remote viewing, these days, is
the new age word for psychic
or clairvoyance or so on.
The controlled remote
viewing is the method
used by the military.
It's totally different.
But remote viewing
is the word that's
used for natural ability.
And it's a very good word.
And everybody has that ability.
And generally, when
your life is in danger
or something like that--
>>NOORY: Something kicks in.
>>BUCHANAN:
--something kicks in,
proving that everybody has it.
I was driving along one day,
just a country road, and all
of a sudden, I
knew that a dog was
going to run out in front of
me, and I slammed on the brakes.
And this dog ran
across the road.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Just amazing how that works.
>>BUCHANAN: It's amazing, yeah.
>>NOORY: I have visualized
driving along a two-lane road.
I had this horrible feeling
that someone was going
to pass over the middle line--
>>BUCHANAN: Oh yeah.
>>NOORY: --right
where I was coming.
And so I would pull
farther over to the right
as cars were coming.
And sure enough,
there was another car
that didn't go quite
into the other lane.
But it would have clipped me
had I been hugging the line.
And this happens time
and time again with me.
>>BUCHANAN: It does.
And the more you do it, the more
practice you get at doing it,
and the better you get.
This is one of the
things that surprised me
about the controlled remote
viewing that I learned.
I felt like I was
becoming psychic.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Nothing wrong with that.
>>BUCHANAN: Nothing
wrong with it, no.
In fact, when I first started,
Skip Atwater, who was--
>>NOORY: Another giant.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
He took me over to
the building where
we did the remote viewing and
the practice and all that.
And he sat me down, and he said,
look at the room around you.
And I looked at the room.
And he said, something
I want you to know.
In this room-- maybe not
in the rest of the world--
but in this room, it's
really OK to be psychic.
And all of a sudden it was OK.
>>NOORY: I love it when I go
through these precognitive
remote viewing sessions.
>>BUCHANAN: Oh yes.
>>NOORY: It's kind of
exhilarating, isn't it?
>>BUCHANAN: It is, yeah.
>>NOORY: And then
when you're right,
it makes it even more exciting.
>>BUCHANAN: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: The secret
I have learned
is to react to these
feelings when you get them.
And that is the
biggest stumbling block
for a lot of people.
>>BUCHANAN: Well, you know, a
lot of people get good advice
and don't--
>>NOORY: Don't take it.
>>BUCHANAN: Don't take it.
And when your subconscious gives
you some good advice, take it.
Pay attention.
>>NOORY: Why do you
think this works?
>>BUCHANAN: I think it's
just a part of human ability.
>>NOORY: It's out
there somewhere.
>>BUCHANAN: It's
out there somewhere.
It's one of our senses.
Rupert Sheldrake
talks about the--
I forget what he
calls it, but he's
done all kinds of experiments.
And they've proven correct
that what's generally called
the hundredth monkey theory--
it actually works.
>>NOORY: Lynne McTaggart
calls it the field.
>>BUCHANAN: That's right.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's there.
>>BUCHANAN: And it's there.
We can't explain it.
Like I say, everybody
has a theory.
Nobody has any proof.
>>NOORY: Why are some people
like you better than others?
>>BUCHANAN: I think
because they pay attention.
I know one time when
somebody said, well,
why do you think all these
strange things in your life
have happened to you?
And I said, I think they
happen to everybody.
I just pay attention.
[LAUGHTER]
>>NOORY: You're training
people now via the internet.
Tell me about that.
>>BUCHANAN: I'm
building an internet.
I'm getting old.
>>NOORY: No, you'll
go on forever.
>>BUCHANAN: I used to say I'm
younger than I used to be,
but I'm not saying that anymore.
[LAUGHTER]
But we have been teaching
three-day classes.
And now, when I
went into the unit,
it was supposed to
be about two years
of training eight hours a day--
>>NOORY: That's--
>>BUCHANAN: --five days--
>>NOORY: --intense.
>>BUCHANAN: --a week.
Intense.
And this is an extremely
complex subject.
And in three days of training
for the basic course,
we can teach you the
basics and it works.
But you're learning 10 to
15% of what we know already.
And so what I'm doing
with this course
is I'm making videos, each
video on a single aspect
of controlled remote viewing.
>>NOORY: Excellent.
>>BUCHANAN: For
the basic course,
I have at present 120 videos.
I have 10 courses
that are going to take
the different levels of remote
viewing and applications.
And so I'm going to wind up
with 1,000 to 1,500 videos
for these courses.
>>NOORY: That's fantastic.
>>BUCHANAN: And I
want it to be perfect.
I want it to be
totally in depth.
And so that's what I want
to leave as my legacy
to the world.
>>NOORY: Excellent.
>>BUCHANAN: And so I want
it to be right and in depth.
I want it to be everything
that I know that then people
can build on after that.
And so that's what
I'm doing right now.
I have quit teaching the
in-house classes, because
of my health and
my wife's health.
But for the past
five years now, I've
been developing this entire,
absolutely, totally in-depth
course where it
teaches you everything.
>>NOORY: Our friend, Ed Dames,
continues to train people.
>> Learning the RV protocols
takes hours of instruction,
so we can't present the
entire process here.
But this student has been
here since early this morning
and is starting to get a
handle on the RV process.
The student is asked
to leave the room
while Ed Dames selects a
random target from a newspaper.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
See those numbers
written on the article--
84116872?
Those are called target
reference numbers or TRNs.
This was a blind training
system developed in the military
to keep the targets
hidden from the viewer.
Why?
Because a human mind
has a tendency to use
imagination which would
ruin an RV session.
The goal is to utilize the
unconscious mind to retrieve
all of the data remotely.
This system works
because a remote viewer
receives only the
TRN numbers and must
rely on following the
remote viewing protocol,
so that their
unconscious mind actually
collects the target data
the numbers are pointing to.
Think of it as a universal
mind data filing system.
For the session, the student
receives only the TRN numbers.
Absolutely nothing
else is provided.
He has no idea whether
the target is even
a person, place, thing, or
event in the past, present,
or future.
The possibilities are
literally endless,
so the student
must shed any idea
of trying to guess what the
target is and must strictly
follow the non-thinking
RV protocol.
During the entire
30-minute process,
there has been absolutely
no assistance or information
provided to the student.
As the session unfolds with
colors, descriptors, motion,
a pattern is beginning to
emerge of an object described
as irony, metallic, bitter,
acidic, chemical, and enclosed.
The remote viewer writes
that the site is surreal,
and he feels concerned.
The student is finally on the
last stage of the RV process
and is creating what is
called a site template.
The student is drawing
a large, round structure
filled with hot water.
Targets there have emotion
of oblivious to surroundings.
>> Can you tell me if
anybody there is oblivious
to their surroundings or
whether or not they should be?
Happy and oblivious to
surroundings, I'd say.
That's a nuclear reactor
in the background.
>> In the finished sketch,
we clearly see the student
identify the target as a
large, round structure with hot
liquid.
The living targets nearby
are labeled as oblivious
to their surroundings.
>> I'm surprised.
I think I really got it.
But after seeing this, I
know that it does work.
>>NOORY: That's pretty uncanny.
>>BUCHANAN: It is.
And you notice a part of
that was immediate feedback.
Right there when the
session is fresh,
you get the immediate feedback.
You go back through
your session.
You find out what you did
right, what you did wrong.
And you accept not only what
you did wrong, but you accept.
You learn to accept
what you did right.
And this is the training.
And-- yeah.
And what you saw there
was part of the process.
His is TRB, which is an offshoot
of CRV, similar to it, but not
the same as the military.
>>NOORY: Can't people get
better and better, Lyn,
as they do this?
>>BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>BUCHANAN: --practice.
>>NOORY: --right
now than you were
when you were in the military?
>>BUCHANAN: Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, because I have
accepted my weaknesses.
And I've had people
select targets for me
that will practice my weaknesses
and get better, and better,
and better.
And so when I do a bad session,
that's the ones I learn from.
>>NOORY: What's a
bad session to you?
>>BUCHANAN: Bad
sessions were I'd
hit an accuracy of like 20%.
>>NOORY: Inaccuracy?
>>BUCHANAN: Inaccuracy.
>>NOORY: Of 20%?
That would be pretty--
>>BUCHANAN: No, an
accuracy of 20%.
>>NOORY: Oh, accuracy of 20%.
>>BUCHANAN: And
that's where I go back
and I say, OK, what
did I do wrong?
What was I thinking?
Oh, I said it was an
apple instead of red.
And that's where I go back.
And I learn what I did wrong.
And I increase my
ability to do it.
And so yeah, it's
a learning process.
It is a mental martial art.
>>NOORY: Why did the
government stop the program,
if they stopped the program?
>>BUCHANAN: First of all,
I don't know if they did.
When I retired, one
thing they did stop
was telling me secrets.
[LAUGHTER]
They don't tell me
secrets anymore.
>>NOORY: No more anymore.
>>BUCHANAN: I always say that--
>>NOORY: Did you have
a contact there--
>>BUCHANAN: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: --in the government?
>>BUCHANAN: I keep contacts.
Yeah, I am not retired.
I'm on retention.
>>NOORY: And what
about the other people?
>>BUCHANAN: I'm not sure.
I always say that I
hope that they are still
doing it, because
they'd be stupid not to.
>>NOORY: I would agree.
>>BUCHANAN: That brings
up the question--
does our government
do anything stupid?
>>NOORY: Many times.
Why aren't they utilizing
the experts like you?
This is a question I've
asked Paul Smith and Ed Dames
over the years.
And that is, is the
program continuing?
They think it is not.
Because they think the
government would have used
you folks again and again.
But I think they have
a new crop of people.
>>BUCHANAN: That's very likely.
And I'm sure they
learned a lot from us.
We developed a
humongous database
over the almost quarter of
a century that we worked
and it was analyzed.
We had scientific oversight
committees and all that.
And so yeah, I hope
they're still using it.
>>NOORY: Can you
defend against it?
Can you create, for
example, a shield
to block a remote
viewer from penetrating?
>>BUCHANAN: A remote viewer?
A psychic?
Yeah, piece of cake.
No problem.
>>NOORY: You can block them?
>>BUCHANAN: A controlled
remote viewer?
No.
There's no way.
>>NOORY: What an amazing tool.
>>BUCHANAN: Because we developed
methods to get past blocks.
In the almost
quarter century, we
did all kinds of
stuff that was not
developed at Stanford Research
to use an actual intelligence
gathering.
And we kept data.
We found out what works
and what didn't work.
And part of it was, how do
you get past being blocked?
And we found out how to do it.
>>NOORY: Have you
ever seen or witnessed
an amazing child remote viewer?
>>BUCHANAN: I've seen videos.
Yeah.
>>NOORY: Are they
better than most adults?
>>BUCHANAN: I think they
haven't learned to be bad yet.
[LAUGHTER]
>>NOORY: But they
receive things, probably.
>>BUCHANAN: I think we
learn in our growing
up to block our psychic ability.
>>NOORY: Anymore books
coming out for you?
>>BUCHANAN: I hope so.
I had a computer attack that
wiped out not only my computer,
but 12 years worth of backup.
>>NOORY: Somebody
do that to you?
>>BUCHANAN: It was surgical.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>BUCHANAN: And I lost three
books that I had about halfway
finished.
>>NOORY: Everything
was in there?
>>BUCHANAN: Everything.
>>NOORY: Gone?
>>BUCHANAN: Gone.
And so--
>>NOORY: No backup?
>>BUCHANAN: --I'm rebuilding.
With the videos I've been
doing for these courses--
I've been making multiple
backups not connected
to my computer.
And so I still have those.
But 12 years worth
of everything.
My family pictures--
>>NOORY: Gone.
>>BUCHANAN: --gone.
>>NOORY: Lyn, when
you think back
to the days of your childhood,
and your teenage years,
and your young adult
years, did you ever
think you'd be doing
what you're doing today?
[LAUGHTER]
>>BUCHANAN: No, of course not.
I had no idea.
>>NOORY: Well, what did you want
to be when you were younger?
>>BUCHANAN: I wanted
to be an astronomer.
>>NOORY: Aha, you
love telescopes, huh?
>>BUCHANAN: I love telescopes.
I love astronomy.
And that love of
astronomy has helped.
I'll tell you this thing.
One of the things that I've
been doing since the military--
not in the military,
but since the military
is developing diplomatic area
books for other star systems,
simply because--
>>NOORY: Oh, that's interesting.
>>BUCHANAN: --if
we have astronauts
that go to another star system
and meet a new intelligence
there, first contact is what
starts the biggest wars.
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>BUCHANAN: You make
some stupid mistake.
>>NOORY: And they don't get it.
>>BUCHANAN: And you know
what an area book is, right?
>>NOORY: Mm-hmm.
>>BUCHANAN: Diplomatic
area book telling you
the customs and everything
in another country.
>>NOORY: Civilization.
>>BUCHANAN: And so
we've been doing those.
And the thing is
the reason I've been
asked to do that
is because I have
a proven database, old
track record of my accuracy.
They would never ask
a person who doesn't
have that proven track record--
>>NOORY: Why?
>>BUCHANAN: --to do that,
because it could start a war.
>>NOORY: Have you remote
viewed other planets?
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Ingo remote viewed
the far side of the moon.
He believes there are structures
there and things like that.
>>BUCHANAN: There are.
>>NOORY: Have you
done that, too?
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Wow.
Past civilizations?
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Who would do that?
>>BUCHANAN: On Mars.
Yeah.
They were there.
Not really advanced, but yeah.
>>NOORY: What has,
in everything you've
done with remote viewing, Lyn,
been the most astounding thing
you think you've ever done?
>>BUCHANAN: The most astounding?
>>NOORY: Astounding.
Just blew your mind.
>>BUCHANAN: Three
things come to mind.
One, I had been
doing the bad guys
and doing plans and
intentions of the bad guys.
And it was wearing them.
It was wearing me down.
And I went into the director.
And I said, look, give
me Bozo the clown.
Give me Mother Teresa
or something, but--
>>NOORY: Give me something fun.
>>BUCHANAN: --quit giving
me these God-awful people.
And--
>>NOORY: Depressing.
>>BUCHANAN: --so the
director, of course, said hey,
you're a soldier.
Do your job.
Get out of my office.
And about a week
later, I got a target.
And it was a
personality assessment,
not plans and intentionments,
where you get into their mind.
Just a personality assessment.
And very quickly I said
this is not a bad guy.
This is a good guy.
By the end of the session,
almost my entire summary was,
whatever evil you think this
guy did, he didn't do it.
>>NOORY: He didn't--
>>BUCHANAN: And I felt
like I was just glowing.
And the monitor took the tasking
out of the sealed envelope
and it said Jesus.
And in a very real way at that
level, I met the actual Jesus.
It changed my life.
>>NOORY: You met--
>>BUCHANAN: That one--
>>NOORY: --Jesus?
>>BUCHANAN: Well, in that way.
>>NOORY: In a sense.
>>BUCHANAN: That
session changed my life.
It really did.
OK, that was one.
Another-- the Russians were
developing a death ray,
a particle beam weapon.
>>NOORY: Like Tesla?
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
And one of our customers
wanted to know what
was going on inside the beam.
Well, you put an
instrument in there.
In a millionth of a
second, it's vaporized.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>BUCHANAN: And so they wanted
to see if a remote viewer could
step inside the beam and tell
what's going on in there.
>>NOORY: Without getting hurt.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah.
And I thought, oh, cool.
[LAUGHTER]
And so I volunteered to do it.
The most beautiful thing
I've ever seen in my life.
>>NOORY: The beam?
>>BUCHANAN: The beam.
Inside the beam.
And inside the beam, time
itself was totally screwed up.
And the experience
I had in there--
I finally gathered
the presence of mind
to tell what was going
on inside the beam
with the particles and all that.
But it was the most
amazing experience
I've ever had in my life,
totally indescribable.
The third one was one time
I was doing a session.
And there's a phase 7.
That said phase 6.
There is a phase 7.
And a phase 7 where--
it's hard to explain.
Anyway, I was working along.
I was in the room by myself.
And it felt like somebody
bent over my ear,
bent over my shoulder
and whispered in my ear,
you're not going to
believe what comes next.
I had learned by that
time-- write it down.
And so I wrote it
down and went--
continued on with my
session, found out
that Saddam Hussein
had a US missile
that he had stolen, basically--
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>BUCHANAN: --and had
it aimed for the Hajj
there for the Feast
of Ramadan, where
all the leaders circle around.
>>NOORY: He was going
to blow them all up?
>>BUCHANAN: He was going
to blow them all up,
leaving him to be the leader of
the Muslim world and with proof
that it was an American
missile and therefore--
>>NOORY: They did it.
We did it.
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah, but it
was him that was doing it.
But he had that plan.
And I never heard any--
I never got any proof, any
facts, or any data on it.
But I heard from the DIA
later that it was accurate.
They found the missile,
and it was his plan.
>>NOORY: Lyn, for
people who want
to go through your remote
viewing training program,
what do they do?
How do they find you?
>>BUCHANAN: I have
finally found a platform
to offer the course on.
I did lose 30 of those
videos for the basic course
in this computer attack.
>>NOORY: Crashed.
Yeah.
>>BUCHANAN: And so I'm in the
process, rebuilding those.
I'm hoping to have the course
out by the end of the month.
>>NOORY: How do they
find you, though?
>>BUCHANAN: My website
is crviewer.com.
>>NOORY: Oh, that's easy.
>>BUCHANAN: And I will be
announcing it on that website.
I'll also be announcing it
on my Facebook web page.
>>NOORY: Can they
be coast to coast--
our show?
>>BUCHANAN: Yeah, hope so.
>>NOORY: All right.
We'll do that.
Lyn, thanks for
being on the show.
>>BUCHANAN: Give me a call.
>>NOORY: You're one of
the best, my friend.
>>BUCHANAN: Oh, thank you.
In doing this in-depth
course, I want
it to be something that's going
to get serious people doing
good for the world.
That's the legacy I
really want to leave.
>>NOORY: Well, that's the
legacy you are leaving.
Thank you so much--
>>BUCHANAN: Real good.
>>NOORY: --for being--
>>BUCHANAN: Thank you.
>>NOORY: --on the program.
Remote viewing-- it's a
subject that has always
been dear to my heart.
I've practiced it.
I've dabbled with it.
And you can too, because
it is an incredible tool
for your own life.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]